### Vanderbilt University
### Leadership, Policy and Organizations
### Class Number 9951
### Fall 2020
# Fall Project

The final project will take the form of a written description of the data to be used for your
yearlong project. I expect the document to be written to the standards of a journal article, although
this will be by necessity longer than the standard description of data in a journal article.
Your paper should be no longer than five pages (approx. 1500 words). Make sure that you
attend to the stylistic guidelines for an APA manuscript, including headers, page numbers, and
guidelines for tables and figures.

Your paper should have the following components:

* Introduction: In one or two paragraphs, describe the nature of the problem and your research
question or questions.

* Directional Statements: You’re not required at this time to have full blown hypotheses, but you
should describe broadly what you expect to see. What are the expected relationships between
your dependent and independent variables?

* Description of Survey/Dataset: Describe the survey you plan to use for your study. How and when were
the data collected? What was the overall sample size? How much information is available
from this survey? What methods were used to correct for non-response and to “freshen”
the sample?

* Description of Dataset: Your dataset is a subset from a larger survey. How did you choose to
subset? Is your data limited to a certain group? A certain year or wave of data collection?
Which questions are included?

* Sampling considerations: What should the reader know about the sampling design used and
its relationship with your dataset? Which sampling weights, psu and strata are you using
and why? This should be technically competent, but should also display an ability to
describe what you’ve done in readily comprehensible terms. You also need to comment
on any issues generated by the selection of your particular subset.

* Considerations and Limitations: In this section, you should describe how your data fall short
from what you would ideally like to have. What are the imperfections in the available
data? Are there measurement problems? Do you have samples from the right population?
Also make certain to describe patterns of missing data.

* Description of the Data: In this section, you should accomplish two things. First, for the dependent
variable(s) and key independent variables describe measures of central tendency
and distributional measures. Second, try to show in graphical and/or tabular form whether
or not the data support the directional relationships you described above. Steer far clear
of causal language here—just describe the patterns that you see.

* Do File, Codebook I will also want your final Do File and a Codebook describing all of the variables
in your analysis dataset along with this assignment.
